(THEME MUSIC PLAYING)
(SOFT ROCK SONG PLAYS)
COURTNEY: What's the truth?
What's true?
♪ I just think about you
♪ Got me wondering why
we never tried again... ♪
I think we each have
our own truth.
So let me get this straight.
HANNAH: Okay.
You don't know why you're here.
You don't know
how I'm supposed
to feel.
You don't know why
I haven't seen you
and have. in fact. tried
not to think
about you for months
and then you show up tonight.
Precise and accurate.
in true Clay Jensen style.
And you're still allowed
to make fun of me.
Allowed? Obligated?
Who can say?
Are you real?
Do you see me?
Are you corporeal?
That seems like
a science-fiction question.
Can I touch you?
That seems like
a loaded question.
This is fucked up. right?
(STAMMERS) Like.
I'm seriously fucked up.
I don't think you're fucked up.
I think you're just
working through things.
Things like seeing a ghost?
And other things.
So you are a ghost.
Okay. does it matter
what you call me?
I'm here.
And you're here for a reason?
I would think so.
But you don't know what it is.
I was hoping you would.
And you're not going away.
I don't think so.
I mean. not for the moment.
(SCOFFS)
Well. that's just fucking great.
LAINIE: Clay!
(KNOCKING ON DOOR)
Clay!
You're going to be late.
Shit.
LAINIE: Clay?
(KNOCKING CONTINUES)
Are you all right?
Uh. sorry! I'm fine.
I'm fine. I overslept.
(SIGHS)
You slept in your clothes?
Yeah. Homework and stuff.
But. um. everything's okay?
Yeah. all good.
How was court yesterday?
(SCOFFS)
Why don't you tell me?
I was just there
to drop off some files.
How about you?
I was just curious.
Clay. I know you said
you don't think
about Hannah.
that you don't care
about her anymore.
but I am worried
that that's not true.
I gotta get dressed for school.
Well...
Okay.
Bye.
Nothing's going on?
I have to go to school.
And you don't care
about me anymore?
Look. I tried. Hannah.
I did everything I could
for you. and nothing worked.
Nothing.
And now you're back?
And there's still nothing
I can do.
If that's true. why am I here?
Yeah. Exactly.
(PHONE BEEPS)
What the hell?
Shit. I gotta go.
(SIGHS)
"Hannah wasn't the only one."
What do you suppose
that means?
Who gave it to you?
And why now.
the day my trial started?
You think they're connected?
You think they're not?
(HORN HONKS)
I think that
I need to get dressed.
and go to school.
and try to live my life.
(SIGHS)
SKYE: Saddle up. partner.
Did we talk about you
giving me a ride
last night?
Did we have to?
I mean. no. but. um...
Should we talk about last night?
How about
instead of talking.
we just ride?
COURTNEY: We all have things
we keep hidden.
Sometimes. keeping secrets
is how you survive.
(MOTOR REVVING)
(POP MUSIC PLAYING)
Because in high school.
one rumor. one picture...
Yes.
One incident.
can define you forever.
You're doing
the right thing. honey.
I know.
Now it's gonna be out there.
Everything I said
in my deposition.
Look. what happened to Hannah
after that photo.
it happened to you. too.
And that is not your fault.
You told the truth
And that's all you're
gonna do again today.
(PHONE BEEPS)
STEVE: Is that Mikey?
Uh... (SIGHS)
Aww. Todd. look.
Wow. Wow. he is
a keeper. huh?
I guess he is.
COURTNEY: And the truth
doesn't even matter.
Barry e-mailed me last night.
He said it was Bryce's idea.
that Bryce
asked you yesterday.
Asked me what?
If we want to use their lawyer.
I'm not gonna let you
take the stand
without some guidance.
This kind of thing
can ruin
somebody's life.
even if they're innocent.
I know. it's just...
We can find our own lawyer.
It's fine.
This is the kind of thing
your father used to handle.
At times like these.
we need to benefit
from our associations.
(PHONE VIBRATES)
MRS. DEMPSEY: Who is it?
Zach: It's. uh...
Bryce. actually.
He probably wants
to get some throws
in before practice.
I should go.
Okay. honey.
And tell him thanks.
No. I wanna testify.
MR. DAVIS: But...
(SIGHS) It's just...
Tyler Down.
who testified yesterday.
called out a couple kids.
and they weren't happy.
That's all.
Well. if anybody
gives you any flack.
you tell me. and I'll handle it.
(CHUCKLES)
Thanks. Dad.
COURTNEY:
When rumors spread.
you can fight them
or ignore them.
but they never really go away.
When you're the target.
you do anything you can
to protect yourself.
(TAPE RIPPING)
Jess! Hey! You wanna help?
BRYCE: Babe.
Where else you want 'em?
(CHUCKLES) You guys are
ridiculous. but sweet.
Babe. thank you
for helping me with this.
Come here.
COURTNEY:
Sometimes you hide.
Sometimes you fight back.
Anything you have to do.
ALEX: There you go.
Thank you.
Good for you. Let's go.
(BOTH GRUNT)
Such a gentleman.
This doesn't mean
I'm gonna put out
or anything.
What? Not even a handy?
Oh. my hand
doesn't really work...
All right.
Hey. you know what?
Let's take
the side entrance today.
But it's way further.
and I get tired.
I can carry you. Come on.
Okay. you're not...
Dude. you're not...
The whole reason
I called you was to avoid
another scene.
Getting picked up by my dad
in the cop car was
embarrassing enough.
COURTNEY: Because
the thing is.
in high school.
everyone's watching you.
all the time.
You have to be careful.
MR. PORTER:
Hey. you get my note?
About dropping by the office?
I was hoping
that we could chat.
About what?
About anything that you need.
Anything I can do to help
with what
you're going through.
Really? You think
you can be helpful
all of a sudden?
Yes. uh. I think I can.
Look. I know what you think
about me. you know.
and about what happened.
but the most important thing
to me right now. Jessica.
is about keeping you safe.
GIRL: Jessica!
Hey. where you been?
We still
gotta celebrate. girl.
Uh. the squad made Jess
a flyer yesterday.
Wow. congratulations.
Ms. Davis.
Thank you.
Think about
what I said. okay?
Yeah.
Asshole. You're welcome.
Do I know you?
Uh... (CHUCKLES)
Nina Jones.
And trust me.
Porter's clueless.
It's better
to keep your mouth shut
around him.
COURTNEY: You have to
protect yourself
any way you can.
So that's what I did.
What's going on?
Who are these people?
They're all here for you.
My e-mail list of concerned moms
has over a thousand names
in this county.
And moms do love
a good craft project.
That's...
That's her school picture.
JACKIE:
Doesn't she look lovely?
We're putting a face
on this trial.
She told me that
her foundation wanted
to provide
whatever support I needed.
But she didn't specify
a picket line.
No.
You have to be careful. okay?
These pyrotechnics
can be useful.
but don't forget
this is still your show.
I know that.
And she's staying
with you?
Well. I have a spare room.
Dennis. the house is empty.
It is...
There's no reason for her
to pay for a hotel room.
Just... Be careful.
COURTNEY: I spread a rumor
about Hannah
and I'm not proud of it.
DENNIS: And what happened
after you spread that rumor?
Boys asked me and Hannah
to have sex with them.
Or got physical.
And they were aggressive.
(SCOFFS) And I couldn't
handle it.
This was just
a meaningless kiss.
All right?
Girls do it all the time.
And what to your
direct knowledge
did the school do
in response to Hannah
being sexually harassed?
Or the fact that a lewd photo
of two students
was being shared on campus?
Nothing.
The school did nothing.
CLAY: Who did this?
Someone I talked about
yesterday. I'm guessing.
At the trial.
This is what happens
when you tell the truth.
Ask him.
Did you just come here to look
at the destruction
that is my life. or...
No. I was wondering.
do you ever...
Work with Polaroids?
Amateur hipster tripe.
I'll take that as a no.
It's retro analog bullshit.
There's no negatives.
what's the point?
Unless that is the point.
So no one can make a copy?
No. you can make a copy of
anything. you just take
a digital picture of it.
But. yeah. you want
one print to hold on to.
take a Polaroid.
Do you know these people?
Tommy Shuster. Erica...
Charles. I think.
I shot Tommy a few times
for baseball.
So they go here?
They did.
They were seniors
when we were freshmen.
Do you think he knew Scott Reed?
Don't all those troglodytes
know each other?
Why do you care?
I'm not sure I do.
Only have a second. Coach.
I got a class full
of students waiting.
What's up?
Well. I understand you had
a little chat with one of
my players yesterday.
I'd appreciate it
if you'd come see me first
next time.
Okay. well. it's my job
to have a chat
with students.
I can't be coming to you
every time one of them
happens to play baseball.
No. sure. sure.
Look. I'm glad
we're working on awareness.
and educating these kids
about consent. and everything
you're doing. It's great.
I'm just looking
for a little teamwork.
I give the right speeches.
you give me a heads up
if you've got a concern
about one of my guys.
Okay. I got a concern
about all your guys.
Heads up.
You know what.
I'm sick of athletes
always being the targets.
Coach. Athletes have the run
of this school.
and you know it.
I just don't want them
to run kids over.
You want teamwork?
You check your boys.
so I don't have to.
We've been talking
about how do you control
your impulses.
Today we're going to do
an exercise
that will help you
think before you act.
Because you're gonna
do the thinking
for someone else.
You're gonna be
someone else's eyes
and their ears.
and guide them around the room.
Or out of a window.
MR. PORTER: Maybe. Cyrus.
(SCOFFS) But you'll be
switching blindfolds
halfway through.
so don't do anything
you don't want done to you.
Okay?
That means find a partner.
Or I'll find one for you.
You'd think they'd run
these class names
by a focus group first.
"Ass Class."
You're a pretty good artist.
Kind words from
the master photographer.
That was you. right?
You won that photo contest
with that night vision picture
of the dog pissing last year?
Punk rock. dude.
Should we...
Why the hell not?
Kinky.
We just shared
a class together.
We weren't really friends.
SONYA: But she didn't confide
in anyone else
about her fears. correct?
I don't think so.
Not any other friends?
Her parents?
HANNAH: I don't know.
it could be a stalker.
OLIVIA: A stalker?
I highly doubt
that kind of thing is going on
in our neighborhood.
It's a real thing.
Celebrities have them
all the time.
Oh.
So we're a celebrity now?
No. You know what I mean.
Forget it.
Honey. no. Hannah.
Honey. I'm sorry.
All right. I just...
(SIGHS) Look. I think
that you have a little anxiety
about this new school.
It's not anxiety!
Okay. I heard something
out there last night.
Like clicking.
Well. maybe it was the wind.
Or you know. just yesterday.
your father was
saying he thinks
the raccoons are back.
It's not raccoons.
Honey. look. this is
the safest neighborhood
that. you know. we could afford.
Your father checks statistics
on this kind of thing.
And I just know... I know
that for me. when I have
a lot on my mind.
I mean. my mind takes revenge.
Yeah. You're probably right.
So. finding no help
from home.
she enlists you.
Mom can't help. but you can?
Why you?
COURTNEY: I don't know.
But like I said. I was there.
And she was always nice to me.
SONYA: Nice to you.
Defense Exhibit C.
Your Honor. as stipulated.
Uh. I'm curious. Courtney.
was Hannah just being
nice to you there. too?
Describe what you see. please?
(SIGHS) There's. um...
More of Tyler's photos
of Hannah and me.
from that night.
SONYA: Now. you said
before that it was just
a meaningless kiss. correct?
COURTNEY: Yes.
So. now how could it be
meaningless if there's
more than one?
Or is that not a picture of
Hannah kissing you back?
(SPECTATORS MURMURING)
Hey.
Hey. where were you
this morning?
I was avoiding Chloe.
And. like. everyone else.
What's wrong?
Someone's trying
to keep me quiet.
What? What happened?
Not here. Come on.
ALEX: Wow. that is seriously
messed up.
Yeah. somebody is fucking
with my head.
And my head's already
plenty fucked up
all on its own.
Somehow I don't see Bryce
walking into a sex shop.
What do you think about Chloe?
I don't know.
she's in smart classes
but she does stupid things.
I can't see her
having any ideas.
It's gotta be someone.
Well...
Whoever it is.
it'll stop if you just
tell the truth tomorrow.
How does that make any sense?
Because they're doing it
to protect Bryce.
And if you tell the truth.
then there's no
protecting him anymore.
Yeah. that sounds easy
and simple.
Well. I think
it's what you have to do.
I don't think
you fucking get it. Alex.
Every time I look at him.
it's like...
It's like it's happening
all over again.
Right now.
Like it's gonna keep happening
for the rest of my life.
Maybe this will make it stop.
Clearly. I'm all alone in this.
Jess...
(PHONE BEEPS)
Everything cool?
(COUGHS) Uh...
Yeah. sorry.
That was just my mom
being motherly.
Your mom's kinda
the Gestapo. huh?
Yeah.
I saw her watching
from the window
the other night.
You... You saw that?
They do know about me. right?
Of course. We've been friends
since first grade.
Yeah. but I haven't seen them
since. like. seventh grade.
And I've grown and so have you.
Well. they know about you.
They do.
My mom was just saying
that they want to have you
over for dinner. so...
Uh. we should do that
at some point.
You sure that's a good idea?
Did they know Hannah?
Um...
No. No. they didn't.
You never told them
about Hannah but you've
told them about me?
All these secrets. Clay.
I mean. I told them
about Hannah. Eventually.
So you haven't
told them about me
because you're still
hung up on her.
(STAMMERS)
No. that has nothing...
And that's why you were
in court yesterday.
How did you know that?
Tyler Down told me.
Because I asked him.
And I stood super close
to him.
So. he got all nervous
and told me the truth.
Yeah. um...
I'm not going back.
It was just one time.
You keep saying that.
like it'll make it true.
I'm not going back!
SKYE: Relax.
I'm messing with you.
Here. eat.
(SPUTTERS)
Ugh! That tastes like pasture.
Meat is murder.
Ugh.
(CHUCKLES)
So is choking a person
to death with weeds.
I like her.
She makes you try new things.
That's good for you.
I'm serious.
Okay? You seem less afraid
when you're with her.
I like it.
And it also makes me
kind of sad.
SKYE: Is everything okay?
Totally.
But you're not here with me.
I am here.
Promise.
Honestly. that's the truth.
It was just a game.
Truth or dare.
SONYA: Maybe.
Or maybe it was more.
For Hannah.
Maybe Hannah
suggested the game
to take advantage of you.
Take advantage of...
Why?
Because she liked you.
DENNIS: Objection. Relevance?
SONYA:
It goes to motivation.
Your Honor.
JUDGE: I'll allow it.
Is it just me.
or is this whole locker room
concept super antiquated?
Like. just 'cause
there aren't guys around
doesn't mean it's not weird
to get naked
in front of strangers.
Yeah. totally.
SONYA: Isn't that why she
asked for your help
that day?
No.
Really?
Well. you said
you're not a lesbian.
But can you be certain
that Hannah wasn't?
Hey. do you wanna
maybe proofread
each other's papers
for Mrs. Cusick's class?
I barely passed the last one.
saw you got an A.
Sure. Let's do it.
(CHUCKLES)
SONYA: Courtney. you testified
that when this picture
got around campus.
rumors were spread.
And these additional photos
show that Hannah
kissed you back.
Is all of that correct?
Yes.
Then isn't it possible
that Hannah had a crush
on you?
And when this picture
got around.
she was the one that spread
the rumors. to put
the suspicion on you?
Isn't Hannah
the real bully here?
Courtney?
No.
But if Hannah
was the aggressor.
doesn't it seem that she might
have been a lesbian.
or at least bisexual?
(SPEAKING INDISTINCTLY)
And that she was using you?
Isn't that possible?
No. it's not possible.
Because it was
the other way around.
I liked her.
I was the one with the crush.
HANNAH: Mmm.
Maybe we should get back
to the game.
Sorry.
No worries.
I mean. it's like you
said. it doesn't have to
mean anything. right?
Hey. what's wrong?
I feel stupid.
What? Why?
Because it does mean something.
To me.
Oh...
Oh. I didn't. um...
(SOBS)
Oh. shit.
COURTNEY:
It was my first kiss. see?
And I felt like it was ruined.
Hey.
COURTNEY:
Maybe 'cause her own
first kiss had been ruined.
maybe because
she just felt bad. but...
That's the real reason
she kissed me back.
That's what's
in those photos Tyler took.
Proof. That she was
a good friend.
And maybe that means I was
bullying her the whole time.
I don't know. but...
That's the truth.
No further questions
for this witness.
DENNIS: Redirect. Your Honor.
So. Courtney. you're saying.
in fact. that Hannah
didn't bully you that night.
That actually
she was kind to you.
Yes.
Look. I didn't know Hannah
that well.
but that night.
she was my friend.
She was there for me.
and Liberty should have
been there for her.
What a day.
It was a big win for us.
And for Hannah.
That poor girl. though.
That can't have been easy.
Well. she must have been
carrying that around
for a long time.
It's what happens
when you bottle things up.
This room was always
so sad and empty.
Do you know
I've never lived alone?
Huh.
I went right
from my parents' house
to a college roommate. and Andy.
(GASPS) Oh. Olivia.
Oh...
OLIVIA: Um...
I'm so sorry. I...
I forgot. I...
I put this in here.
I. uh...
This is the dress
I was wearing the day I...
I found Hannah.
I always meant to wash it.
but then I just couldn't
bring myself to.
I'm so sorry. I...
I used to carry
one of Tessa's socks
in my purse.
(SIGHS)
For months after she died.
I carried
that sock everywhere.
Do you still have it?
No.
No. eventually.
I decided
it was time to...
To move on.
Right.
No. that's...
That's probably
what I should do. too.
BRYCE: Hey. so. um...
So. what's up with you
helping out Alex so much?
Are you like
his butler now. or what?
(STAMMERS) Yeah. no.
It's nothing.
My mom's making me
help him actually.
because she's friends
with his folks.
and. yeah.
Huh.
So is he gonna testify?
I don't know if he can.
because of the...
I mean. he's.
like. crippled.
Right. right. right.
Yeah. So when are you up?
Couple days.
Oh. and my mom says thanks.
by the way. for the lawyer.
Yeah. sure.
She...
She said that you had
already asked me?
Yeah. no. I meant to.
I just...
I figured it was
better to act fast.
you know?
Yeah. no. that totally
makes sense.
But... So does that mean
they called you in.
too. or...
No. I'm just
lookin' out for you.
We're in this together.
right?
Yeah.
Hey. you know what.
I'm gonna catch up with you
at practice.
My mitt's in the car. So...
All right.
(SIGHS) What's their deal?
I get that you're not called.
but I still could be.
I have to be ready.
I need to know
what was on those tapes.
Maybe it's better
you only know
what Jessica told you.
Why? Why is everyone
protecting me?
(BANGS)
What the fuck are you two
looking at?
Hey. come on. buddy.
Come on.
Alex. you need to calm down.
You need to wake up.
You heard what happened
to Courtney today.
Who knows what Jessica's
gonna do tomorrow?
Okay? I can't...
I can't fail at this. too.
COURTNEY: It's not always
easy to know how to be
a friend. but...
Hannah knew how
and she was brave.
CHLOE: One. two. three. four.
five. six. seven. eight.
One. two. three. four.
five. six...
JESSICA: Sorry.
(MUSIC STOPS)
CHLOE: Okay.
That's okay. guys. um...
Everyone. take five.
(JESSICA SIGHS)
Hey.
Hi.
Is. uh...
Is everything okay?
Yeah. fine.
Okay. look. it's... It's not.
And I'm just gonna say this.
because that's what
leaders do. right?
(SIGHS) Look. um.
I messed up yesterday.
I should've talked to you
about Bryce. us dating.
I didn't realize
how it might affect you.
on the squad and...
And I'd hate for that
to be weird.
"Weird"?
I know that you and Bryce
had a thing. but...
It's before my time. you know?
And it's just one night.
I really do think
it's so brave of you.
coming back here
after everything
that happened.
"Everything that happened"?
Yeah. you know. like.
what everyone's saying.
That you cheated on Justin
and called it rape.
or whatever.
'cause you regretted it.
Which... Hey. look. look.
I totally...
I totally understand.
because. you know.
I should know. he's my man.
But... I don't
have a problem with it.
so there's no reason
why we should have to let
that affect our work. right?
(SIGHS) Oh. God.
Okay. Jessica. look.
I'm so...
No.
Just don't touch me!
(CHLOE SIGHS)
(CAMERA SHUTTER CLICKS)
Really? This is for yearbook?
Don't you have windows
to stalk. perv?
Off with you!
MAN: I'm sorry. Tyler.
The decision is final.
(DOOR OPENING. CLOSING)
What? What happened?
Mr. Kurtz just freaked out
on me.
Apparently. I'm no longer
allowed to photograph
female sports.
This is how our school
has decided to "respond"
to my testimony.
By only letting you photograph
the jocks who bullied you.
This school is king of irony.
Yeah. I don't really
understand irony. exactly.
Yeah. no one really does.
Hey. so. um.
did you make a copy
of Hannah's tapes?
Why?
(STAMMERS) I mean.
I thought about it.
For insurance.
or whatever. but...
No.
(CLEARS THROAT)
Well. thanks.
Sorry.
Hey. um...
Those pictures you took of me
in the hospital...
Um...
Can I see them?
Yeah.
Yeah. Of course.
(KEYBOARD CLICKING)
It's. uh...
It's a lot to take in.
Yeah.
(MOUSE CLICKING)
Why did I do this to myself?
You didn't do this.
Everyone else
at this school did.
So. the credits from detention
transfer 50 percent.
Depending on what
your teachers say.
you'll probably have to do
summer school.
That's fine.
Um...
How does it feel being back?
(SCOFFS) How do you think?
I imagine it's been difficult.
But. um. I was hoping
that you would tell me.
If you want.
It's only been half a day.
I mean. everyone stares.
no one says anything.
Hmm.
Are you thinking
about going back
to cheerleading?
(SCOFFS) Are you kidding?
No.
Don't you know
about what goes on
at this school?
Or. I mean.
at least have an idea?
Yes. I do.
That's why I...
I want to help.
I think we both understand.
too little. too late.
I hope it's never too late.
Sheri.
Why don't we schedule
a check-in?
(SCOFFS) Nah. I'm good.
But I'll be sure to stop by
though. if I'm ever raped.
ZACH: Good.
Nice. Dude. your. your balance
is totally better
than last week.
One more big push.
Let's do this. come on.
(GRUNTS)
What's going on. man?
My legs don't work.
And my brain doesn't work.
My arms hurt.
I'm a worthless piece of shit.
Dude. come on.
No!
Okay? It's true. man.
I can't help Jessica.
I can't remember shit.
Your memory...
And everyone that can
help me remember they
won't even help me.
Your memory
will come back. just...
You're a fucking doctor now?
How do you know that?
Seriously what the fuck
do you even know about
what I'm going through?
Why are you even here?
Go hang out
with the rest of
your dumb jock
fucking rapist friends.
(PANTING)
I need a lift out of here.
Ask your doctor. I guess.
What is this?
Some twisted
physical therapy test?
Yeah. okay. I don't know
exactly what you're
going through.
But I know what it's like
to feel like shit's
never gonna get better.
Every time I come home
to my empty fucking house.
I remember that feeling.
Zach. I forgot.
And I come here
every single day because
I remember last summer.
It was PT that helped me
get through it.
I'm really sorry.
You know. I could still really
use a lift out of here.
OLIVIA: Jackie!
Hmm?
You had no right!
No right!
Olivia. I'm sorry.
I thought you said...
Well. I didn't say! Okay?
This was all I had left.
Everything else
is in evidence.
or donated. or gone.
Andy wanted to fucking
get rid of everything.
And he did it.
And. Jesus. the clothes
he wore that day.
he washed them.
and he wore them again!
This... (SOBS)
My daughter's blood. (SOBS)
Oh. God. Olivia.
I am so. so sorry.
I thought this was
what you wanted.
No! Don't!
Just don't. don't...
I never would've dreamed.
honestly. I'm...
We were talking about that girl.
on the stand.
being bottled up.
I just wanted to help.
You can't help
with this part. okay?
Because I'm not...
I'm not...
I'm not that girl.
And this part I have to do
on my own. I do.
Whatever's going to happen.
I have to... (SOBS)
I have to do it in my time.
in my way.
Yes.
I should...
No. No. No. I...
I should go.
(WOMAN IS A WORD PLAYS)
COURTNEY: Instead of facing
my fears and clearing up
all the rumors.
I let Hannah take the fall.
I was afraid of what
people might think
if they knew.
♪ I'm only an image
of what you see
DENNIS: Courtney.
some people
might be wondering.
if you didn't tell the truth
for so long.
how do we know
you're telling the truth now?
Because it was time.
And because I owe it to Hannah.
COURTNEY: And I guess
we all have things
we try to hide.
♪ I'm only a woman
if woman is a word
But they can't stay
hidden forever.
♪ Bird to a bee.
bird to a bee
JESSICA: That was brave.
Sorry?
I read that blog.
What you did today.
at court. it was brave.
I don't know about that.
No. it was.
You helped Hannah.
Yeah. but I hurt her first.
(STAMMERS) I told lies
about her
and I messed up her life.
You weren't the only one.
Did anyone threaten you
before you testified?
No.
Why? Did something happen
to you?
No. no. I...
Was it hard to tell the truth?
Yes.
But it was time.
♪ I'm only a woman
if woman is a word
♪ Bird to a bee... ♪
COURTNEY: And I think
this trial...
This trial is going to
force a lot of people
to tell the truth.
For better. or for worse.
(PIANO MUSIC PLAYS SOFTLY)
(INDISTINCT CHATTERING)
(MATT SPEAKS INDISTINCTLY)
(SKYE CHUCKLING)
SKYE: Not a fan
of the gluten free?
Uh. hello? Mom?
MATT: Hey. kiddo. Your mom's
still at work. We're in here.
(MATT SPEAKS INDISTINCTLY)
It's like gluten-free pasta.
It's like moisture-free water.
(SKYE AND MATT CHUCKLING)
SKYE: Sounds delicious.
CLAY: Guys. what's going on?
We're making
hand-rolled pasta.
Your dad taught me.
Wait. check it!
(DOUGH SPLATTERS)
MATT: When it's done.
it'll stick.
Okay.
And why are we
hand-rolling pasta?
Skye said she liked Italian.
I figure it's the least
we could do.
It's our first dinner together.
Your mom's thrilled.
by the way.
Big points scored.
Our first dinner.
Clay. this was your idea.
remember?
We talked about it at lunch.
Um. yeah. that's not exactly...
Skye. I think
this might be ready.
Yeah. Okay.
You wanna try again?
Ready?
Yeah. Try not to...
Ooh. ow. (PUFFS)
Okay.
(POPS)
Hey!
Oh. my God! Yes!
Bella. bella. Molto bene!
SKYE: Totally sticks.
MR. DOWN: That is graphic.
I don't know if I approve
of this game.
Let's go again.
Dad. what is this?
What? No. I wanna learn.
Well. at this rate.
that's gonna take years.
(SCOFFS)
Besides. I heard you
on the phone
with the school. earlier.
So. what's up?
Well. I was wondering
if maybe we should. um.
transfer you to another school.
Really?
But how would that look
for colleges?
Well. I really just want to
make sure that you make it
to college.
But. I mean. what about
my friends here?
I have Alex.
He needs me. Dad.
I know.
But Alex. he's recovering
from a traumatic...
And I don't know if
it's the healthiest thing
for you.
So. I can't hang out
with him anymore?
No. but...
Is there no one else.
you know. that you have
a connection with?
No. I do.
Actually. yeah. no.
(STAMMERS) I totally forgot.
Uh. Cyrus.
in Mr. Porter's class.
He's like an amazing artist.
And. you'd...
Um. you'd like him.
That's great.
Yeah.
Great! Bring him over.
Cool.
We'll play some vids.
No one calls them that.
I call them that.
Okay.
TODD: All right.
here we go. Yes.
Desert Hearts is supposed
to be a classic.
The Kids Are All Right.
Blue is the Warmest Color...
Maybe we wait and watch
this one last.
Wha...
Isn't this just
very binary thinking?
Movies and shows are
a wonderful way
to open up a dialogue.
So we're screening one
about a man who breaks up
a lesbian couple?
Oh. God. I forgot
about that part.
Yeah.
At least the lesbians
aren't serial killers
or policewomen.
And the male gaze makes
Blue is the Warmest Color
very suspect
as fodder for
positive conversation.
Good Lord. you overanalyze
everything. Probably why
she didn't tell us before.
Are you saying that
it is my fault?
It's nobody's fault.
Or it's my fault.
Oh. no. no. no. No.
Honey. honey. Aww.
Hey. sweetie...
(SOBBING)
Everyone takes the time
they take.
STEVE: Why are you crying?
(SNIFFLES)
It's nothing. it's...
(SIGHS) You're just amazing.
and...
I'm so lucky
to have you both.
Oh.
Come on. Come here.
(WHISPERS) We love you.
COURTNEY: The truth
can free you if you let it.
LAINIE: So it's graffiti?
It's a... It's a mural. Mom.
It's called street art.
It's very popular.
It's one of
the oldest art forms.
If you think about it.
cave paintings
were street art.
Yeah. Yes.
That's... Thank you. Dad.
And. um. how long
have you two
been making this art?
Couple months.
Not long.
Months! This must be
some mural.
(CHUCKLES)
Well. we don't always paint.
LAINIE: No?
You don't? You're gone
for hours. Clay.
What else are you doing?
Yeah. what else
do we do. Clay?
We. um...
We hang out. Mostly.
What does that mean?
I never know.
Is that slang for sex?
Mom!
That's "hook up." honey.
Hook up. yes.
Well. if you two are.
um. hooking up...
I just hope
you're being careful.
We. uh... Aren't.
Hooking up. I mean.
We're. uh... So...
All good.
Yep.
Okay.
Um... Should we...
Can we be excused?
What's gotten into you?
We're in the middle
of dinner.
Nothing. I'm just full.
Yeah.
This pasta is filling.
Yeah. it was so good.
though.
So good.
So thank you. guys
Appreciate it.
Yeah. Thank you.
Thanks for dinner. guys.
Bye.
You guys
are the best. Thanks.
Jesus. what is your...
Holy shit.
(INDISTINCT CHATTERING)
MAN: Hey. don't forget
to breathe.
I am breathing.
You're not. so much.
(GRUNTS)
Wow.
That's some hard hits today.
You got something
on your mind?
(PANTS) Nah. I don't.
I just need you...
To sign this form
for my probation officer.
Right on.
Six more sessions left.
Not bad.
Think your anger's been
adequately managed
in our time together?
Huh. I'll let you know.
We gotta get in the ring
before you're done.
You and me.
Uh... I don't think so.
But thank you.
She washes one dress
and it sets me back
five months.
I swear. I was ready
to kick her out
right then and there.
But I think she might be
a friend.
and I don't have
many of those right now.
Present company excluded.
No. I get it.
Friends who aren't
in high school.
(CHUCKLES)
You know. Andy...
Andy used to tell me. when I'd
listen to the tapes
for the umpteenth time.
and I would call you
with new questions.
he would say
how inappropriate it was
that I was spending time
with you.
Really? You didn't tell him
that I don't play
for your team?
What happened to that
boyfriend of yours?
The handsome guy?
I haven't seen him
around in weeks.
Brad.
Yeah. we broke up.
Oh. That's too bad.
He was pretty.
Yeah.
He didn't talk much.
but he was very pretty.
What happened?
Um...
He didn't want to date
a kid anymore.
Wanted bigger things.
He was tired of
the high school bullshit.
Here I am. bringing you more
high school bullshit. huh?
No. never.
I'm here for you. always.
God. I sit
in that courtroom. Tony.
and I feel like
I never knew my daughter.
She kept all these secrets.
Why did she have
so many secrets?
I think. uh...
I think. sometimes. we aren't
keeping secrets to hide
from other people.
I think. sometimes.
we're keeping them to
protect those people.
(SOFT ROCK SONG PLAYS)
SKYE: What's wrong?
CLAY: Nothing.
Okay. just stop.
Wait. I...
Stop. Just...
Are you ashamed of me?
What? Skye. no. I...
Then what the fuck
is going on here. Clay?
I mean. why didn't
your parents know
about me?
Because they're my parents.
They meddle.
Honestly. it has nothing
to do with you.
Really?
Yeah.
It doesn't have to do
with the way I look?
Or that I have.
like. tattoos
and piercings
and. like. cuts all over?
Jesus. Skye. no.
I don't care
about that stuff.
You know that.
You don't care.
Of course.
Wait...
Skye. hang on. Let's just...
That's not what I meant. okay?
What I mean is.
I like the way you look.
I like you.
Really? Because your body
is kinda saying the opposite.
Maybe my head's still scrambled
from you trying to jerk me off
in front of my parents.
Well. I'm sorry!
I'm sorry for trying to be
fucking spontaneous!
You could've talked to me.
you didn't have to just
show up at my house.
It was weird!
I'll tell you what's weird.
you still being in love
with a fucking dead girl.
Don't...
Don't say that. please.
That's not true.
Really?
You freaked out
at our spot last night
the day that her case
is going to trial.
Then you freaked out at lunch
today because I brought up
you going to court.
It's like. wherever we go.
she's there!
No. That's not...
That's insane.
SKYE AND HANNAH: Is it?
It's all about Hannah. Clay.
and it always will be.
How am I supposed to compete
with that?
She's perfect.
And she's dead.
Really. Skye.
Can we sit and talk?
I don't wanna fucking sit down!
Tell me I'm wrong.
Tell me you love me.
Tell me you're over her. then.
I... I love you. I...
And?
And you're over me.
Clay. it's okay.
just say it.
Clay?
I can't!
(SIGHS) I'm sorry.
but I can't say that.
You have been lying to me.
you fucking liar!
Skye! Skye! Shit.
Skye!
Skye.
(BIKE STARTING)
(MOTOR REVVING)
Fuck.
HANNAH: What are you gonna do?
I'm gonna go after her.
You sure that's a good idea?
No. I think
it's a terrible idea.
But a worse idea is staying here
and discussing it all
with you. so...
You think
that's what she wants.
for you to chase her?
Are you serious right now?
Are you fucking serious?
"Part of me was saying.
'Don't go.'"
Remember that. Hannah?
Your words. My tape.
"Part of me was saying.
'Don't go.'"
I remember.
Well. there you go.
She's not me. Clay.
No.
No one is.
I think it projects strength
and confidence. don't you?
Maybe we can
pull your hair back a little?
Something like this?
Sure. Mom.
Whatever you think.
MRS. DAVIS: You want to sleep
in your own bed tonight?
You must be getting tired
of our floor.
No.
No. I'm not.
Okay.
COURTNEY: Or fear of
the truth can keep you
trapped in your secrets.
SONYA: In discovery.
the plaintiffs found
that your date book
was missing a page.
which seems to be the page
from the last date
of your meeting with Hannah.
Hmm.
Now. I'm not
gonna ask you
why that page is missing.
Not now. not in court.
But they will.
Well. I heard you made
Courtney Crimsen come out
on the stand today.
That's... That's messed up.
I didn't make her do anything.
I just asked the questions
I had to ask.
They're kids.
They're children.
They knew what they were doing.
Did you?
COURTNEY: And someone
who's keeping a secret...
Who's desperate to keep
that secret. and desperate
to stay hidden
can hurt everyone around them.
There will always come a time
when we're forced
to face the thing
we're most afraid of.
No. no. no. No.
Skye!
Skye! Wait. Mrs. Miller!
What is she...
What happened?
Nothing that hasn't
happened before.
I didn't mean to upset her.
She's not upset.
She's ill.
Please. just...
Just go home.
(AMBULANCE HONKS)
(SIREN WAILING)
You really do have a thing
for complicated girls.
(SCREAMING)
(BURNING HOUSE OF LOVE
PLAYING)
(KATHERINE LANGFORD READING)
♪ Drive by my house
late at night
♪ You can see
from the freeway above
♪ No silhouette.
but a light left on
♪ Burning there for love
♪ Smoke is rising
from the fire
♪ Coming out my back door
♪ I'm inside. sound asleep
♪ Cigarette on the floor
♪ Burning there for love
♪ Well. I can still remember
♪ A couple of years ago
♪ When the smoke
and flame
♪ From our names
♪ Was a burning house
of love
♪ Yeah. a burning house
♪ A burning house of love
♪ Burning house of love
♪ Well. I can still remember
♪ A couple of years ago
♪ When the smoke and flame
From our names
♪ Was a burning house
of love
♪ Yeah. a burning house
♪ A burning house of love
♪ The rusty nail
over our front door
♪ Is where I hung our tears
in the rain
♪ I threw that horseshoe
into the weeds
♪ I see
what love can bring
what love can bring ♪
MAN: Well done. Ed.
Well done.